Add a page listing all features supported by Godot (#3775)
godotengine/godot-docs: about/list_of_features.rst

.. _doc_list_of_features:

List of features
================

> This page aims to be a synthetic list of all features currently supported by Godot.

Reviewer: I think the word synthetic here is lost in translation. I am having trouble understanding the difference between a list and a synthetic list.

.. note::

    This page lists features supported by the current development version of
    Godot (4.0.dev). Some of these features may not be available in the current

>     stable release series (3.2).

Author: I *think* it makes sense to have this notice as people may be missing the `/latest/` in the URL in a hurry.

We'd rather not have people start a project, only to realize the current stable Godot release don't have the features they need when they're half-way through.

   - Official binaries are compiled on Ubuntu 14.04.

**Runs exported projects:**

- Android 4.4 and later.
- iOS 10.0 and later.
- HTML5 via WebAssembly (Firefox, Chrome, Edge, Opera).
- :ref:`Consoles <doc_consoles>`.

Godot aims to be as platform-independent as possible and can be ported to new
platforms with relative ease.

Editor
^^^^^^

**Features:**

- Scene tree editor.
- Script editor.
- Support for :ref:`external script editors <doc_external_editor>` such as
  Visual Studio Code or Vim.
- GDScript :ref:`debugger <doc_debugger_panel>`.
   - No support for debugging in threads yet.
- Visual profiler with CPU and GPU time indications.
- Performance monitoring tools.
- Live script reloading.
- Live scene editing.
   - Changes will reflect in the editor and will be kept after closing the running project.
- Remote inspector.
   - Changes won't reflect in the editor and won't be kept after closing the running project.
- Live camera replication.
   - Move the in-editor camera and see the result in the running project.
- Use the editor in dozens of languages contributed by the community.

**Plugins:**

- Editor plugins can be downloaded from the

>   :ref:`asset library <doc_what_is_assetlib>` to extend editor functionality.

Reviewer 2: In addition to the asset library hosting plugins mentioned here, there should be a mention somewhere about the asset library's ability to host full projects, including the ability to download them via the project manager.

- Adjustable light "size" for fake area lights (will also make shadows blurrier).
- Lights are rendered with clustered forward optimizations to decrease their
  individual cost.

**Shadow mapping:**

- *DirectionalLight:* Orthogonal (fastest), PSSM 2-split and 4-split.
  Supports blending between splits.
- *OmniLight:* Dual parabolid (fast) or cubemap (slower but more accurate).
  Supports colored projector textures in the form of panoramas.
- *SpotLight:* Single texture. Supports colored projector textures.
- Shadow pancaking to decrease the amount of visible shadow acne and peter-panning.
- PCSS-like shadow blur based on the light size and distance from the surface
  the shadow is casted on.
- Adjustable blur on a per-light basis.

**Global illumination with indirect lighting:**

- Baked lightmaps (fast, but can't be updated at run-time).
   - Lightmaps are baked on the GPU using compute shaders.
- GI probes (slower, fully real-time). Supports reflections.
- Signed distance field GI (intermediate, supports dynamic lights but not
  dynamic occluders). Supports reflections.
- Global illumination uses a deferred pass to allow for adaptive subsampling.

> **Reflections:**

Reviewer: Can add screen space reflections

- Fast baked reflections or slow real-time reflections using ReflectionProbe.
  Parallax correction can optionally be enabled.
- Reflection techniques can be mixed together for greater accuracy.

**Sky:**

> - Panorama sky (using an HDRI).
> - Procedural sky (with "high quality" or "real time" options for faster rendering).
> - Physically-based sky (with "high quality" or "real time" options for faster rendering).
>    - When using a physically-based sky, it also adjusts the color automatically
>      depending on the sun's angle.
> - In ProceduralSky and PhysicalSky, sun direction is automatically adjusted
>   based on the first DirectionalLight's rotation.
> - Support for custom sky shaders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Panorama sky (using an HDRI).
- Procedural sky and Physically-based sky that respond to the DirectionalLights in the scene.
- Support for custom sky shaders.
```

> **Fog:**

Reviewer: Fog is going to change a lot over the next couple weeks. reduz still hasnt merged the fog [PR](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/36989)

Author: I described what the fog PR you linked implements :slightly_smiling_face: 

Hopefully, this will remain correct once the PR is merged.

Reviewer: There will be more to add. Reduz' volumetric work will likely fit in here. Plus once he is done with that I would like to add a proper atmospheric model that can be used for "fog" and for sky.

- Depth fog (exponential or with custom attenuation).
- Height fog (floor or ceiling) with adjustable attenuation.
- Support for automatic depth fog color depending on the camera direction
  (to match the sun color).
- Optional transmittance to make lights more visible in the fog.

**Particles:**

- GPU-based particles with support for custom particle shaders.
- CPU-based particles.

> **Post-processing:**

Reviewer: roughness limiter could be added here

"Roughness limiter that reduces the impact of specular aliasing"

- Tonemapping (Linear, Reinhard, Filmic, ACES).
- Automatic exposure adjustments based on viewport brightness.
- Near and far depth of field with adjustable bokeh simulation.
- Screen-space ambient occlusion at half or full resolution.
- Glow/bloom with optional bicubic upscaling and several blend modes available:
  Screen, Soft Light, Add, Replace, Mix.
- Color correction using an one-dimensional ramp.
- Brightness, contrast and saturation adjustments.

**Texture filtering:**

- Nearest, bilinear, trilinear or anisotropic filtering.

> - Filtering options are defined on a per-use basis, not a per-texture basis
>   thanks to bindless textures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filtering options are defined on a per-use basis, not a per-texture basis.
```

Shaders
^^^^^^^

- *2D:* Custom vertex, fragment, and light shaders.
- *3D:* Custom vertex, fragment, light, and sky shaders.
- Text-based shaders using a `shader language inspired by GLSL <doc_shading_language>`.
- Visual shader editor.
   - Support for visual shader plugins.

Scripting
^^^^^^^^^

**General:**

- Signals and groups.
- Many built-in datatypes to ease the development process:
   - 2D and 3D vectors, available in floating-point and integer form.
   - 2D and 3D transforms.
   - 2D rectangles.
   - 3D axis-aligned bounding boxes (AABBs).
   - 3D infinite planes.
   - Colors.
   - Quaternions.

**GDScript:**

- :ref:`High-level interpreted language <doc_gdscript>` with
  :ref:`optional static typing <doc_gdscript_static_typing>`.
- Syntax inspired by Python.
- Syntax highlighting is provided on GitHub.
- :ref:`Use threads <doc_using_multiple_threads>` to perform asynchronous actions
  or make use of multiple processor cores.

**C#:**

- Packaged in a separate binary to keep file sizes and dependencies down.
- Uses Mono 6.x.
   - Full support for the C# 8.0 syntax and features.
- Supports all platforms.

> - Using an external editor is recommended to benefit from IDE functionality.

Author: UWP support in general is currently broken, so I left it out of the page entirely. We'd like to fix it by the time 4.0 is released, but I can't make any guarantees.

Windowing and OS integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Move, resize, minimize, and maximize windows spawned by the project.
- Change the window title and icon.
- Request attention (will cause the title bar to blink on most platforms).
- Fullscreen mode.
   - Doesn't use exclusive fullscreen, so the screen resolution can't be changed this way.
     Use a Viewport with a different resolution instead.
- Borderless windows (fullscreen or non-fullscreen).
- Ability to keep a window always on top.
- Transparent windows with per-pixel transparency.
- Global menu integration on macOS.
- Execute commands in a blocking or non-blocking manner.
- Open file paths and URLs using default or custom protocol handlers (if registered on the system).
- Parse custom command line arguments.

Mobile
^^^^^^

- In-app purchases on Android and iOS.
- Support for advertisements using third-party modules.

Mixed reality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Support for ARKit on iOS out of the box.
- Popular VR headsets like the Oculus Quest and HTC Vive are supported thanks to plugins.

GUI system
^^^^^^^^^^

Godot's small distribution size can make it a suitable alternative to frameworks

> like Electron or Qt.

Author: I moved the part about Electron/Qt at the bottom. I'm not sure about adding an introductory paragraph though, since container nodes are already described below.

Animation
^^^^^^^^^

- Direct kinematics and inverse kinematics.
- Support for animating any property with customizable interpolation.
- Support for calling methods in animation tracks.
- Support for playing sounds in animation tracks.
- Support for Bézier curves in animation.

Formats
^^^^^^^

- Scenes and resources can be saved in :ref:`text-based <doc_tscn_file_format>` or binary formats.
   - Text-based formats are human-readable and more friendly to version control.
   - Binary formats are faster to save/load for large scenes/resources.
- Read and write text or binary files using :ref:`class_File`.
   - Can optionally be compressed or encrypted.
- Read and write :ref:`class_JSON` files.
- Read and write INI-style configuration files using :ref:`class_ConfigFile`.
   - Can (de)serialize any Godot datatype, including Vector, Color, ...
- Read XML files using :ref:`class_XMLParser`.
- Pack game data into a PCK file (custom format optimized for fast seeking),
  into a ZIP archive, or directly into the executable for single-file distribution.
- :ref:`Export additional PCK files<doc_exporting_pcks>` that can be read
  by the engine to support mods and DLCs.

> Miscellaneous

Reviewer: "Low-level access to Server API which allows users to avoid the overhead from the scenetree"

**Texture compression:**

- Basis Universal (slow, but results in smaller files).
- BPTC for high-quality compression (not supported on macOS).
- ETC2 (not supported on macOS).
- S3TC (not supported on mobile/Web platforms).

**Anti-aliasing:**

- Fast approximate antialiasing (FXAA).
- Multi-sample antialiasing (MSAA).

Most of these effects can be adjusted for better performance or to further
improve quality. This can be helpful when using Godot for offline rendering.

3D tools
^^^^^^^^

- Built-in meshes: cube, cylinder/cone, (hemi)sphere, prism, plane, quad.
- Tools for :ref:`procedural geometry generation <doc_procedural_geometry>`.
- :ref:`Constructive solid geometry <doc_csg_tools>` (intended for prototyping).
- Path3D node to represent a path in 3D space.
   - Can be drawn in the editor or generated procedurally.
   - PathFollow3D node to make nodes follow a Path3D.
- 3D geometry helper class.

3D physics
^^^^^^^^^^

**Physics bodies:**

- Static bodies.
- Rigid bodies.
- Kinematic bodies.
- Vehicle bodies (intended for arcade physics, not simulation).
- Joints.
- Soft bodies.
- Ragdolls.
- Areas to detect bodies entering or leaving it.

**Collision detection:**

> - Built-in shapes: infinite plane, cuboid, sphere, capsule, cylinder (only with

Reviewer 2: Plane shape is deprecated.

  Bullet physics).
- Generate triangle collision shapes for any mesh from the editor.
- Generate one or several convex collision shapes for any mesh from the editor.

Shaders
^^^^^^^

- *2D:* Custom vertex, fragment, and light shaders.
- *3D:* Custom vertex, fragment, light, and sky shaders.
- Text-based shaders using a `shader language inspired by GLSL <doc_shading_language>`.
- Visual shader editor.
   - Support for visual shader plugins.

Scripting

> ^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: The scripting section is missing a section for VisualScript.

**General:**

- Signals and groups.
- Many built-in datatypes to ease the development process:
   - 2D and 3D vectors, available in floating-point and integer form.
   - 2D and 3D transforms.
   - 2D rectangles.
   - 3D axis-aligned bounding boxes (AABBs).
   - 3D infinite planes.
   - Colors.

>    - Quaternions.

Reviewer 2: I feel like this list is not very necessary, and/or can be compacted. We aren't listing every single node type, so there is no need to list every single math type. I think this list should be replaced with "Many 2D and 3D linear algebra data types such as vectors and transforms". Also, there are a few things missing when it comes to general scripting features. I think it should be something like:

```rst
**General:**

- Object-oriented design pattern with scripts extending nodes.
- Signals and groups for communicating between scripts.
- Support for cross-language scripting.
- Many 2D and 3D linear algebra data types such as vectors and transforms.
```

Maybe also link https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/scripting/cross_language_scripting.html

**GDScript:**

- :ref:`High-level interpreted language <doc_gdscript>` with
  :ref:`optional static typing <doc_gdscript_static_typing>`.
- Syntax inspired by Python.
- Syntax highlighting is provided on GitHub.
- :ref:`Use threads <doc_using_multiple_threads>` to perform asynchronous actions
  or make use of multiple processor cores.

**C#:**

> 

Reviewer 2: I still think we should link articles, but now I'm thinking that we should do this for all languages:

https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/scripting/c_sharp/index.html

https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/scripting/gdscript/index.html

https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/getting_started/scripting/visual_script/index.html

**GDNative (C, C++, Rust, D, ...):**

- When you need it, link to native libraries for higher performance and third-party integrations.
   - For scripting game logic, GDScript or C# are recommended if their
     performance is suitable.
- Official bindings for C and C++.
   - Use any build system and language features you wish.
- Maintained Rust and D bindings provided by the community.

Audio
^^^^^

**Features:**

- Mono, stereo, 5.1 and 7.1 output.
- Non-positional and positional playback in 2D and 3D.
   - Optional Doppler effect in 2D and 3D.
- Support for re-routable :ref:`audio buses <doc_audio_buses>` and effects.
   - Dozens of effects included.
- Listener3D node to listen from a position different than the camera in 3D.
- Audio input to record microphones.
- MIDI input.
   - No support for MIDI output yet.

**APIs used:**

- *Windows:* WASAPI.
- *macOS:* CoreAudio.
- *Linux:* PulseAudio or ALSA.

Import
^^^^^^

- Support for :ref:`custom import plugins <doc_import_plugins>`.

**Formats:**

- *Images:* See :ref:`doc_importing_images_supported_formats`.
- *Audio:*
   - WAV
   - Ogg Vorbis.
- *3D scenes:*

>    - glTF 2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - glTF 2.0 (recommended).
```

Windowing and OS integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Move, resize, minimize, and maximize windows spawned by the project.
- Change the window title and icon.
- Request attention (will cause the title bar to blink on most platforms).
- Fullscreen mode.
   - Doesn't use exclusive fullscreen, so the screen resolution can't be changed this way.
     Use a Viewport with a different resolution instead.
- Borderless windows (fullscreen or non-fullscreen).
- Ability to keep a window always on top.
- Transparent windows with per-pixel transparency.
- Global menu integration on macOS.
- Execute commands in a blocking or non-blocking manner.
- Open file paths and URLs using default or custom protocol handlers (if registered on the system).
- Parse custom command line arguments.

Mobile
^^^^^^

- In-app purchases on Android and iOS.
- Support for advertisements using third-party modules.

XR support (AR and VR)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Support for ARKit on iOS out of the box.
- Support for the OpenXR and OpenVR APIs.
- Popular VR headsets like the Oculus Quest and HTC Vive are supported thanks to plugins.

> GUI system
> ^^^^^^^^^^
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GUI system
^^^^^^^^^^

Godot's GUI is built using the same ``Control`` nodes used to make games in Godot.
The editor UI can easily be extended in many ways using add-ons.
```

- Generate one or several convex collision shapes for any mesh from the editor.

Shaders
^^^^^^^

- *2D:* Custom vertex, fragment, and light shaders.
- *3D:* Custom vertex, fragment, light, and sky shaders.
- Text-based shaders using a `shader language inspired by GLSL <doc_shading_language>`.
- Visual shader editor.
   - Support for visual shader plugins.

Scripting
^^^^^^^^^

**General:**

- Object-oriented design pattern with scripts extending nodes.
- Signals and groups for communicating between scripts.
- Support for :ref:`cross-language scripting <doc_cross_language_scripting>`.
- Many 2D and 3D linear algebra data types such as vectors and transforms.

:ref:`GDScript: <toc-learn-scripting-gdscript>`

- :ref:`High-level interpreted language <doc_gdscript>` with
  :ref:`optional static typing <doc_gdscript_static_typing>`.
- Syntax inspired by Python.
- Syntax highlighting is provided on GitHub.
- :ref:`Use threads <doc_using_multiple_threads>` to perform asynchronous actions
  or make use of multiple processor cores.

:ref:`C#: <toc-learn-scripting-gdscript>`

- Packaged in a separate binary to keep file sizes and dependencies down.
- Uses Mono 6.x.

>    - Full support for the C# 8.0 syntax and features.

Reviewer 3: As I understand it we don't fully support C# yet, the default target language is still 7.0 and we need to switch to .NET `<insert current name here>` 5 to support it fully, right?

Author: Indeed. This should be solved by https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/40595 once it's merged.

Reviewer 3: Ok, let's keep it in as "soon true" :)
